Get a  data of the ancient instruments and start the process of fabrication, our initial objective will be to explore the Instruments kits of Pathani Samanta of Cuttack, and explore its importance in the modern generation. Samanta did his calculations on his own and developed tools witih which he observed the astronomical phenomena with naked eyes.

The most five of the traditional equipments:
1) Dhanuryantra
2) Shanku and Sundial
3) Chapa Yantra
4) Gola Yantra
5) Mana Yantra

1) It is a device that can be used to assume the distance between the stars and othee celestial objects. Initially this equipment was made with two strands of coconut leaf sticks and a piece of string. This was done by Samanta Chandra Sekhara

2) Shanku is a simple stick that is placed vertically on an even ground, whose shadow can show us various astronomical phenomena. And the sundial is one of the great instruments that we can also find its presence in todays world, that is the sun dial of Jaipur. Types: Horizontal sun dial and equitorial Sundial (Chapa Yantra)

3) equitorial Sundial (Chapa Yantra)

4) The Armillary sphere or the GolaYantra, was invariably used by all ancient Astronomers. It is used to demonstrate various astronomical celestial Objects. Measure the positions of the celestial bodies. And even the motion of Planets can be demonstrated with the help of this device.

5) The Mana Yantra - This one of the major creations of the Samanta, which made him a face for the world. This was one such equipments whose importance was in calculating the approax height of distance objects, consider mountains and hills.

Samata has a wide range of discovries and inventions, these also include astronomical telescope, for making our schools active s=centers for Astronomical observations, and for calculations an average scientific calculator was adequate.

Some general tasks that could be performed during the Research:
1) measure the separations between the stars in Ursa-Major and that of a-Ursa Majoris from the Pole star. Check them with standard data.
2) Measure the angular distance of Betelgeuse (Ardra) and Rigel (Bana Raja) from the middle star in Orion's belt.
3) Using a gnomon, find the declination of sun on any day using local value of latitude. (Refer a standard geographical atlas) 6. Can you measure the declination of moon using the gnomon?